Use Case: checking firmware after-the-fact with help of RIMs (#17)
ietf-scitt/draft-birkholz-scitt-software-supply-chain-use-cases: draft-birkholz-scitt-software-use-cases.md

* to check for the trustworthiness of a provider
* to check the integrity of modifications or transformations done by a provider

> ## Verifying Firmware Provenance for large and complex systems

Reviewer: Verifying Firmware Provenance for a large and complex systems

Author: Let's check with Monty on the title on Monday. I'll check for his availability.

Reviewer: Post Boot Firmware Provenance

In contrast to operating systems or user space software components of a large and complex systems, firmware components are often already executed during boot-cycles before there is an opportunity to authenticate them.

> Authentication takes place, for example, by checking an accompanying signature or by creating a hash of measurements and comparing them to a reference value.

Reviewer: @henkbirkholz I am not clear about the following line:

"and comparing them to a reference value."

You can create a Hash of running FW, but with whom you would compare it against ?
Where does the known reference values come in the device?

Reviewer 2: This is where I believe a SCITT Trust Registry can provide value. This would give consumer the ability to query for trust declarations based on the SHA-256 hash value of a FW package, using somethings as simple as an http query that returns a trust score, i.e.: https://softwareassuranceguardian.com/SAGCTR_inquiry/getSAGScore?FileHash=94EDB27E1995370E9003EE0A0A12D0A7DE2E8DA5EB663C31A97CB4215AB171B6

> Corresponding procedures are often called authenticated, measured, or secure boot. The output of these high assurance boot procedures is often used as input to more complex remote attestation procedures.

Reviewer: input to more complex verification known as remote attestation procedures.

* to check for the trustworthiness of a provider
* to check the integrity of modifications or transformations done by a provider

> ## Verifying Firmware Provenance for large and complex systems

Author: ```suggestion
## Post-Boot Firmware Provenance
```

> In contrast to operating systems or user space software components of a large and complex systems, firmware components are often already executed during boot-cycles before there is an opportunity to authenticate them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In contrast to operating systems or user space software components of large and complex systems, firmware components are often executed during boot-cycles before there is an opportunity to authenticate them.
```

Reviewer: This is the exactly point of the use case, that the FW cannot be measured before execution..

Author: omitting this suggestion as per https://github.com/ietf-scitt/draft-birkholz-scitt-software-supply-chain-use-cases/pull/17#issuecomment-1430206115

> Authentication takes place, for example, by validating a signed artefact against a Reference Integrity Manifest (RIM).

Reviewer 4: I know we have folks across both sides of the pond, but shall we agree on which way we'll spell artefact | artifact?
For reference: [Artefact vs. Artifact](https://www.grammar.com/artefact_vs._artifact)

Author: That's actually a typo. It should be artifact.

> Authentication takes place, for example, by validating a signature or by creating a hash of measurements and comparing them to a reference value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authentication takes place, for example, by validating a signed artefact against a Reference Integrity Manifest (RIM).
```

Author: Maybe:

```suggestion
Authentication takes place, for example, by validating a signature or by creating a hash of measurements and comparing them to a Reference Integrity Manifest (RIM).
```

and removing the expansion if RIM below, if we introduce it here?

> Authentication takes place, for example, by checking an accompanying signature or by creating a hash of measurements and comparing them to a reference value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Authentication takes place, for example, by validating a signature or by creating a hash of measurements and comparing them to a reference value.
```

Author: hm. verification is too overloaded for my taste. If "checking" is not good enough... maybe "validating" instead?

> Corresponding procedures are often called authenticated, measured, or secure boot. The output of these high assurance boot procedures is often used as input to more complex remote attestation procedures.

Author: ```suggestion
Corresponding procedures are often called authenticated, measured, or secure boot. The output of these high assurance boot procedures is often used as input input to more complex verification known as remote attestation procedures.
```

Author: pulling in Yogesh's comment as a suggestion

> Corresponding procedures are often called authenticated, measured, or secure boot. The output of these high assurance boot procedures is often used as input input to more complex verification known as remote attestation procedures.

Author: ```suggestion
Corresponding procedures are often called authenticated, measured, or secure boot. The output of these high assurance boot procedures is often used as input to more complex verification known as remote attestation procedures.
```

> If measurements before execution are not possible, static after-the-fact analysis is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If measurements before execution are not possible, static after-the-fact analysis is required, typically by examining artifacts.
```

> If measurements before execution are not possible, static after-the-fact analysis is required, typically by examining artifacts.

Reviewer 4: Ok, just noting we're not consistent in the same file :)

> ... by examining artifacts.

Author: see above :-)

> In these cases measurements (e.g., a hash or digests) are stored in a protected or shielded environment (e.g., TEEs or TPMs) on these systems itself.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When best practices are followed, in such cases measurements (e.g., a hash or digests) are stored in a protected or shielded environment (e.g., TEEs or TPMs).
```

Author: "Should" would imply a guidance, but we are trying to express an (maybe not fortunately, but that depends on view) a fact of something happening today for this use case.

Reviewer 3: agree on intention, but not sure its a fact... alternatives: 

"ought to be"

"when best practices are followed, are..."

"might..."

Reviewer 5: Of the options above, I like "when best practices are followed, are..." best.

Author: From the option above, I like "when best practices are followed, are..." best.

Author: picked one suggestion as per https://github.com/ietf-scitt/draft-birkholz-scitt-software-supply-chain-use-cases/pull/17#issuecomment-1430206115

> After finishing a high assurance boot sequence, these measurements about foundational firmware are retrieved after-the-fact from shielded locations and must be compared to reference values that are part of RIMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After finishing a boot sequence, these measurements about foundational firmware are retrieved after-the-fact from shielded locations and must be compared to reference values that are part of RIMs.
```

> After finishing a high assurance boot sequence, these measurements about foundational firmware are retrieved after-the-fact from shielded locations and must be compared to reference values that are part of Reference Integrity Measurements (RIMs).

Author: Yogesh pointed out to me that this could maybe mean Reference Integrity Manifest (which would be less confusing, but maybe not what we wanted to say)?

Reviewer: I think we mean Manifest!

> After finishing a high assurance boot sequence, these measurements about fundamental firmware are retrieved after-the-fact from their shielded locations and are required to be compared to reference values that are part of Reference Integrity Measurements (RIMs).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After finishing a high assurance boot sequence, these measurements about foundational firmware are retrieved after-the-fact from shielded locations and must be compared to reference values that are part of Reference Integrity Measurements (RIMs).
```

> After finishing a high assurance boot sequence, these measurements about foundational firmware are retrieved after-the-fact from shielded locations and must be compared to reference values that are part of Reference Integrity Manifests (RIMs).

Author: Corresponding to the suggestion above

```suggestion
After finishing a high assurance boot sequence, these measurements about foundational firmware are retrieved after-the-fact from shielded locations and must be compared to reference values that are part of RIMs.
```

> After finishing a high assurance boot sequence, these measurements about foundational firmware are retrieved after-the-fact from shielded locations and must be compared to reference values that are part of Reference Integrity Measurements (RIMs).

Author: ```suggestion
After finishing a high assurance boot sequence, these measurements about foundational firmware are retrieved after-the-fact from shielded locations and must be compared to reference values that are part of Reference Integrity Manifests (RIMs).
```

> A verifying system appraising the integrity of a high assurance boot sequence must identify, locate, retrieve, and authenticate corresponding RIMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A verifying system appraising the integrity of a boot sequence must identify, locate, retrieve, and authenticate corresponding RIMs.
```

> A consumer of a released software wants:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A consumer of published software wants:
```
